				   My Memoir 
				 By: Ben Miller

   I was eight, I lived in a poor part of town, and I only had one friend. I
 remember the day as sunny, but not a friendly sun, no this was the kind of sun
  that makes the streets glare. I was walking to my friend's house (they lived
   across the street and three houses down) when I heard a noise. It was the
    neighbor's dog. This dog was not only the biggest dog around, it was the
 meanest dog around and it was no wonder it was so mean, as its owners were the
  meanest people in the area. The only reason they still had a dog was because
 they were best buds with the animal control person. They would only let their
   kids play every once in a while and only with a select few. They hated all
  their neighbors, and nearly all their neighbors hated them back. So I don't
reckon it to be totally the dogs own fault that it was so mean, but at the time
 it sure would of helped if the bog had been just a wee bit nicer.  I turned to
 my side and saw the dog come barreling toward me, and just my luck I was stuck
 right up against the fence, and there was no way I could of out run the thing,
it was going so fast it was probably breaking the speed limit. I naturally turn
 to protect my vital organs, so the beast takes a chunk straight out of my hip!
   I collapsed upon the ground and the dog circles around into the street and
   starts coming back for the kill! Then, just in the nick of time, its owner
 comes out to get the groceries out of her car, sees the gate open, sees me and
finally comes to my rescue and calls off her dog. I go home thinking that maybe
			  she's not so bad after all.

  I was wrong. The next day, she calls up and says that it's my fault her dog
  attacked me and that I had provoked the attack - from all the way across the
  street! She demands that I write a letter of apology for throwing rocks and
    sticks at her dog - When I had done no such thing! If I didn't write the
 letter, they said they were going to sue. So we had a nice talk with them and
 explained in very simple terms that we are not to blame for their dogs horrid
 behavior, and that if they wanted to take us to court we would gladly present;
  a picture of the wound, my shredded pants, and a witness who says that I was
  not a participant in throwing rocks at the dog, but that he did it alone and
 because some kids had told him it would make the dog like him. In the end they
did nothing, although they seemed particularly distasteful towards us from then
				      on.

   The moral of the story is . . . um well I guess that you should always be
		careful around dogs, mean neighbors, and sticks.

				    THE END
