
	The early telephone, the incandescent light bulb, and the assembly line
all changed life in the United States drastically. They were the start of the
industrial revolution. Because of Bell, Edison, and Ford, the United States was
shown industry.
	
	In the 1870s, two inventors Elisha Gray and Alexander Graham Bell both
designed devices that could transmit speech electronically. Both men rushed
their designs to the patent office within hours of each other, but Bell
patented his telephone first. Gray and Bell entered into a legal battle over
the invention of the telephone, which Bell proceeded to win. The telegraph and
telephone are both wire-based electrical systems, and Alexander Graham Bell's
success with the telephone came as a direct result of his attempts to improve
the telegraph. Bell's Knowledge of the nature of sound and his understanding of
music enabled him to invent the idea of transmitting multiple messages over the
same wire at the same time. Although the idea of a "multiple telegraph" had
existed for a while, Bell offered his own musical approach as a possible
solution. His "harmonic telegraph" was based on the idea that several notes
could be sent at the same time along the same wire if the notes or signals
differed in pitch. Bell's invention was so amazing that it altered the way
people would live in the United States forever
	
	When Edison was born, society still thought of electricity as a
novelty. By the time he died, entire cities were lit by electricity. Most of
the credit for that progress goes to Edison. In his lifetime, Edison patented
1,093 inventions, earning him the nickname "The Wizard of Menlo Park." The most
famous of his inventions was an incandescent light bulb. He also improved upon
the original design of the stock ticker, the telegraph, and Alexander Graham
Bell's telephone. He believed in hard work, sometimes working twenty hours a
day. Edison was quoted as saying, "Genius is one percent inspiration and 99
percent perspiration." Because of this belief, he was able to successfully
create the cotton filament light bulb, which was so cheap almost anyone could
afford it.

	Cars changed the way people lived, worked, and enjoyed leisure time;
however, what most people don’t realize is that the process of manufacturing
automobiles had an equally significant impact on industry. The creation of the
assembly line by Henry Ford at his Highland Park plant revolutionized the
automobile industry and the concept of manufacturing worldwide. In 1903, he
officially opened the Ford Motor Company and five years later released the
first Model T. Although the Model T was the ninth automobile model Ford
created, it was the first model which achieved wide popularity. Even today, the
Model T remains an icon for the still-existing Ford Motor Company. Henry Ford
had a goal of making automobiles for the multitudes. The Model T was his answer
to that dream; he wanted them to be both sturdy and cheap. In an effort to make
Model T’s cheaply, Ford cut out extravagances and options. Buyers couldn’t even
choose a paint color; they were all black, because that was the only color that
would dry fast enough to keep up the production rate. The first model T. cost
$850.

	these three men, and their inventions have shaped the world we live in.
those same ideas power industry, our personal lives, and our social lives. they
have permanently changed our lives for the better. we should all be forever
grateful to them.
