	Your shoes are hand-made with wood and some dirty cloth. You haven't had
anything to eat or drink but muddy parasite filled water and other peoples
leftovers. You work all day for pennies. A proper pair of shoes costs $5.00,
and that will be going up soon. It's all the fault of monopolies and
corporation. They control whatever industry they are in and then they charge
whatever they want. Monopolies have only one good side. They have money to put
into research. The problem is that without competition they don't have a reason
to. They don't have anyone to take their competition away if they don't lower
their prices.

	The way a corporation goes about creating a monopoly is pretty similar
whatever the situation. First they get some funding or support. Then they lower
their prices really low for a bit to put everyone else out of business, so they
can buy them out. Then they raise the prices even higher than they were
previously, so that they make enough many to repeat the process for anyone who
challenges their monopoly. 

	The effect of that is to completely get rid of their competition, meaning
that they no longer have to worry about quality. If they don't have to worry
about people buying from someone with a better made product, than they don't
have a reason to make a good product, and the consumer has no option but to buy
it or go without. Monopolies almost always cause bad quality. 
	
	We even see the effect of corporations creating monopolies in the present
day. Take Monsanto for example: "Control of the seed industry is passing into
fewer and fewer hands and Monsanto's are the biggest. More than 80% of US corn
and more than 90% of soybeans planted each year are attributable to Monsanto
and monopoly comes to mind.  Is control of the global food system their next
target?  It gets worse. The "big four" biotech seed companies -Monsanto,
DuPont/Pioneer Hi-Bred, Syngenta, and Dow AgroSciences- own 80% of the US corn
market and 70% of the soybean business.  Of course the companies would dispute
this because they say that they do have different products and they do compete
with each other.  But if you consider that Monsanto - the largest and the best
known - licenses its genetically modified traits to other seed companies and as
a result, more than 80% of US corn and more than 90% of soybeans planted each
year are attributable to Monsanto then monopoly comes to mind.  Of course
Monsanto and the others reject this perspective but it is hard to escape the
idea that such control in few hands is not how a market is meant to work and
the situation is ripe for some anti-trust action by government."[1]

	In conclusion, I would add that while I do not think big business or industry
are bad, I don't think we should support companies like Monsanto that seek to
take over a particular industry. I Believe that if people were to buy from
those who don't have monopolies, and those who still care about industry, it
would be impossible for Monsanto and others like it to keep their destructive
monopolies.


[1]:
  "HTTP://WWW.gmeducation.org/latest-news/p207220-the monsanto monopoly.HTML"
  (26/5/13)(Wed 09/25/2013)(HTML-WEB PAGE)
