	We have all heard off the tragic death of those who face extreme cold, but rarely do we
see it from the point of view of someone facing. In this story Jack London does an amazing job
of turning a seemingly unreal event into an obvious reality. The main character in jack
London's "to build a fire" is known simply as the man. The man starts at the Yukon, and travels
through immense cold in an attempt to get to camp. He was given council by an old man not to
travel alone, but he did not heed those wise words.

	The man is now treading through the deep snow, on his way to the camp and a nice warm
dinner with the boys. The man is unimaginative, that it is fifty degrees means only that it is
fifty degrees, nothing more nothing less.  The man is traveling light, only his lunch and his
dog, no sled. He and the dog do not have a very good relationship, the dog senses danger, but
does not care to tell the man, the man would only yell at the dog if it did. The man is
foolish, he thinks he can do anything, however that view point is about to be challenged. The
man takes a step forward and falls through some ice, he is wet to his thighs and must get warm
and dry, and he does not have a second chance if he fails. He goes over to a tree and gets a
fire going. He is foolish and builds it under the tree and all the snow on every branch falls
down and puts out his fire.

	He now has no way to survive unless he can get another fire going. He rips off his
gloves and his fingers are immediately so numb that he can only grab handfuls of thins, so he
gets too much wet moss and can’t start a fire. He tries and tries and can't even light another
match, but finally decides to use them all. He lights them and holds them to his tinder, which
then lights his numb hand on fire. He gets a flame going, only to accidentally crush it. He is
lost and has no source of warmth.

	Then he sees the dog, and thinks that he will kill the dog and use it for warmth; he
grabs the dog with his body, and only then realizes that his hands are so cold he can't
brandish his knife to kill it. He lets the dog go and it runs off a distance then turns to
glare at him, like it knows his intentions. He panics and starts running wildly to try and
escape the truth of his predicament. He is eventually astounded at his ability to run on feet
he cannot feel. He eventually collapses from exhaustion and realizes that he cannot run all the
way to camp and that he will die. He tries to push this thought away and gets back up and
starts running. He eventually collapses for a second time and decides to meet death with
dignity. The dog eventually realizes his master is dead and continues on to camp.

	Throughout the progression of the story the character changes from cocky and foolish to
understanding and humble. If only he could have taken that knowledge just a bit further.
However he eventually realizes the old man is right, and he is repentant before he dies. We got
to see how this author portrays death thought the eyes of the man, and hopefully this will help
every one of us be a little bit wiser.
